The Story of Work

We humans make sense of our world through stories -- especially when it comes to invisible and abstract things like the economy -- it's just the way we're made.

When it comes to the economy, the most popular story in America is the Story of Stuff. There's even a video called The Story of Stuff that's been watched 40 million times on the Internet.

Every good story needs a bad guy, a plot, and a hero who saves the day. In the Story of Stuff, STUFF is the bad guy. STUFF takes over the world, because people are addicted to it like a drug. Finally, concientious environmentalists come to our rescue by teaching the world to turn their back on STUFF. The world is saved.

The Story fo Stuff didn't start with a YouTube video. Europeans and Americans have been telling it for a long time. In the 1970's, a book called Small is Beautiful, telling essentially the same story sold millions of copies. In the Great Depression many in FDR's administration belived they indeed faced a crisis of TOO MUCH STUFF and looked for ways to shrink the industrial economy -- paying people to move into services and other non-producing areas. In the 1800's, Henry David Thoreau influenced generations with a profound anti-STUFF message. But the Story of Stuff goes back much further. The Puritains who settled America were trying to get away from a European capitalist society filled with TOO MUCH STUFF just as much as they were fleeing religious percecution. If you bought too much stuff, they'd throw you in the stocks. Early Christians renounced STUFF as a path to religious purity and millions of people -- including some of the world's richest people at the time -- gave away everything to live lives free of STUFF.

So you see, we've been telling the story of stuff for a very long time. Where has it gotten us? It seems that the more we tell the Story of Stuff, the more STUFF takes over our lives. I sat next to the maker of the Story of Stuff video at a conference once. Even she had a smart phone, and a laptop, and an ipad. Maybe it's time to try out a new story.

Here's a different story. It's called the Story of Work.

STUFF doesn't do anything. It's just stuff. Work, on the other hand, is what we do. We humans have always worked. It's how we live. Even animals make a living by working. Work is what we choose to do with our hands and feet and minds.

A few really important things got left out of the story of stuff. One is this: billions of people don't have basic stuff such as clean water to drink, solid roofs to sleep under, or even toilets. And if smart phones, tablets and laptops are important enough even for global anti-stuff activists to buy, shouldn't everyone have one? Yet only 5% of the planet enjoy the trifecta of gadgets.

Is the Story of Stuff really a story about how people in some countries should get to enjoy STUFF while others need to live without it?

Another thing that got left out of the Story of Stuff is this: What happens to the people who make the stuff when we stop buying it? The the Story of Stuff video, workers are portrayed as victims who we can liberate by ending our shopping sprees and putting them all out of work.

But most of those workers don't have land or capital of their own. How will they make a living?

Don't get me wrong. I think it's stupid that so many of us are working so hard to make so much stuff that no one really needs. But simply cutting STUFF out of our lives would mean cutting most of humanity out of a job.

 if we stop buying all the stuff, then how are the people who work to make it going to live?



There's no question that we're living in a way that is totally unsustainable. X% of species have gone extinct over the past 100 years. Y% of the fish in the ocenas are gone. We are changing the composition of the atmosphere. Even if you don't accept that global warming is real...you gotta be against CHANGING THE ATMOSPHERE.




We've been telling the story of st
